# Project Diary:

**16-10-22**: For the first few weeks, I have been thoroughly going through tutorials on how to use Unity and C# and focusing on the platform aspects of my game, for example, player movement, how environment can affect players and level design. I have also been scouring the internet for royalty free character models and environment assets that I will be able to use in my game.

**23-10-22**: This week, I have been going through free asset packs and picking out potential sprites I would like to use in my game. I have also been attempting to map out the first level of the game in order to block out where the nature elements will come into play, as well as where to place enemies, and where the player will initially start on the screen. This week has been particularly difficult to do any work of significance as there was a project due last week, but as it is now finished, I should be able to start coding for the player movement next week. 

**02-11-22**: I have now started progress on the project. I have coded the start of the player movement by manipulating the character model into moving left and right across the screen as well as the speed in which it moves. My next plan is to start coding the next parts of the project which will be to allow the player to use gravity in order to jump as well as start importing new assets into the project. 

**13-11-22**: I have redone the movement mechanics of the game and have also implemented a RigidBody feature that I have utilised. I have also added a jumping feature that has a different speed to the regular speed so that the player doesn't jump too far. I will continue to watch more tutorials and look at other resources for inspiration on how to add more features to my game as well as learn more about the Unity UI itself. 

**19-11-22**: I have now added a box collider module on the sprite which allows the program to determine whether the player is on the ground or not. The box collider makes use of a Raycast and a floor LayerMask to detect hits between the player and the floor. I have also createda flip mechanic which allows the player to be flipped in appearance to the direction they are moving in. 

**26/27/28-11-22**: This week, I have written the code for camera movement which I decided to do because the game feels more immersive if the camera follows the player. I have now also included coin mechanics in which the player can pick up coins which contributes to the coin counter which is displayed in the top left corner as part of the UI. Finally, I have written the code for enemy movement, this allows the enemies to move from left to right on the platform which will obstruct the player. I have also worked on importing assets and creating the map for the first level by using a TileMap and a TileMap collider. 

**02-12-22**: This week, I have coverted the map from a 2D format, to a 3D format. Initially I used a tilemap that used 2D assets for the platforms. I have now changed this to a modular kit that uses 3D assets. By changing the map from 2D to 3D, I had to change the 2D box colliders into normal box colliders that 3D assets will recognise which will allow the player to utilise these platforms. 

The next change that was made was that a lives systems was created which decreases a lives counter when the player collides with the enemy. The change in lives will be shown in the top left corner along with the coin counter as part of the UI. I have also created a public decrementLives function which can be called in the Enemies.cs file which decreases a player's lives when the enemy is hit. 

The next new feature is that the player's spawn point has been set in which is shown via a new flag indicator. The spawn is set by equalising the position of the rigidBody to the playerSpawn position. 

The next items that will be mentioned are to optimise the code and improve player experience. Firstly, the sprite flip mechanics have been optimised as we now reference the SpriteRenderer which allows us to flip the sprite using the flipX component when it is travelling in a certain direction. Next, I have overriden the gravity of the player as I found that without adding more gravity, the player can linger in the air for longer than it needs to, almost as if the player is floating. Finally, the raycast has been modified to support the new 3D rigidbody. 

The changes made in the Enemies.cs now allow for player hits to decrease player lives. I have used a OnTriggerStay function which checks if the player collides with an ennemy as well as checking if the debounce timer isn't running in which it will decrease a life by 1 from the players total health (3 lives to begin with). This system makes use of a debounce timer which gives a cooldown effect when the player hits the enemy so too many lives aren't lost at the same time. 

**06-12-22**: I have now started animating parts of the game, particularly, player movement. I have written some code that triggers the walking animation whent the player moves left and right, as well as when to stop the animation when the player is not moving. Next I have written code which triggers the Game Over Screen when the player runs out of lives. The player is now also able to replay a game by using SceneManager.LoadScene and in addition to this, I have reset the coins and lives counter everytime the scene is replayed. 

**08-12-22**: Firstly, I have now created a Start screen which appears at the start of the game, on this screen there is an account button, start button, settings button and a leaderboard button. As of right now, only the start button works and is linked to a level screen where the player is greeted with 3 level buttons and a back button which will take them back to the start menu. I have made a new script called LevelManager.cs which allows a level to be loaded up based on the index called using SceneManager.LoadScene(index). In this instance, the first level is called when the first level button is pressed in the level screen. Next, I have made a new function called exitGame() which closes the application when the button is pressed. This allows the player a way out from the game where they did not have one previously and had to alt-tab out of the game. 

**09-12-22**: First of all, I uploaded the Hearts.cs file in which allows the livesCounter to increment as the player picks up the hearts. Next, I created a Win Screen with the condition to pick up a key which uses the newly created Key.cs file, this signifies the end of the game. The Win Screen includes the replay button and the exit game button. Next, I have now completed the shooting mechanic which will allow the player to kill an enemy within 3 shots. This aims to make the game more entertaining for the player. I have now also uploaded the complete game through the assets, packages, and project settings folders. 

**11-02-23**: I have created a Camera.cs file which is used to encapsulate the camera script that was originally in the PlayerMovement.cs file. I have modified the code to include camera limits/clamps which is used to make sure the camera does not exceed a certain x position. This is to make sure that the player is still tracked but the camera won't pan over to dead areas of the map.

**13-02-23**: I have created an "Enemies2.cs" file which allows the new second enemy to move up and down instead of left and right like the first "Enemies.cs" file. This enemy will also cause the player damage. I currently have the problem where the bullet's aren't causing the health of the enemy to deplete and thus that will be what I am working on in my next session.

**15-02-23**: I have updated the code to make sure that each bullet hit takes 1 damage and that the health of each enemy is 3 and thus takes 3 bullet hits to kill an enemy. To combat the problem I ran into previously where the bullet's weren't registering, I realised that this was happening because the program wasn't registering new health of a different enemy as it was still storing the previous enemy's health. Therefore, I have created an Enemy2 tag for the second enemy that moves up and down so it can be it's own entity and store it's own health and thus can now be killed.

**17-02-23**: Created a second level which is attached to the start menu's level manager. Second level contains the contents of the first level for now. Changes will be made to this level to make the difficulty harder as it's level 2. New cs files have also been updated to the complete files in the Asset folder. I have had the idea of turning the first level into a tutorial level which will be implemented in the next coming weeks.

**21-02-23**: I have created a PlatformMovement.cs file which will allow the platforms to move up and down. This will give the game a harder difficult as it was just stationary platforms before.

**26-02-23**: I have implemented a double jump feature in the PlayerMovement.cs file which uses a maxJumps counter which will keep track of how many jumps the player has made. This will allow the game to be more dynamic and allow the player to jump onto higher platforms. This will later be utilised when creating more difficult levels.

**01-03-23**: I have updated the double jump to make use of a debounce timer which will allow each jump to be timed for the right amount of max jumps (2). The new code makes use of if statements that check whether the player is on the ground, if they have jumps left from the jumpsLeft counter as well as if the debounce timer has ran out. 

I have also made a sprint mode which will allow the player to run faster when they hold down LeftShift. This will give the game a faster pace and allow players to get through the game faster and can thus be more appealing. 

**14-03-23**: I have created a PauseMenu which will appear after clicking a Pause button in the top right corner of the screen during the game. This pause menu will allow the player to pause the game, restart the game, and go back to the StartMenu. This PauseMenu will enhance the player experience. 
